Open Source GNomEx FAQ


Q: What development environment would you recommend to make changes to the GNomEx software?

A: If you plan on making significant changes to the user interface, I would suggest 
   purchasing Flex Builder 3, which costs ~ $250.  This is an Eclipse based development 
   environment for building Flex applications.  It will allow you to design the Flex 
   screens in an interactive drag-and-drop environment. Adobe just introduced Flash Builder 4, 
   so it looks like they no longer offer trial downloads or purchases of Flex Builder 3.  
   However, it looks like Flex Builder 3 can be purchased from various third parties 
   such as Amazon.

   In the coming months, I will most likely port GNomEx to the Flex 4.  At this time, 
   I have not investigated the migration effort to port from Flex 3 to Flex 4.  
   I suspect it will be trivial, but I hesitate to suggest Flash Builder 4 until I 
   know for certain that the migration will not be burdensome.

   If you are making very small changes to the software, you might be able to manage 
   with a good text editor, the Java SDK, the open source Flex SDK, and Ant.  
   (See README_INSTALL.txt for notes on how to build GNomEx.)  Another option is to 
   use Eclipse (http://www.eclipse.org/) as your development environment, 
   which offers a robust Java IDE for modifying, building, and debugging the code, 
   only without the ability to design and debug the Flex application interactively.
   
   
Q: How to I make files available for download in GNomEx?
 
A: To be able to download data files from GNomEx, you will need to set the 
   following properties to point GNomEx to a file directory on your server (or mounted on your server) that is read accessible to the account your are running the Orion application server under.  

   experiment_directory  - The path to the root experiment directory.  GNomEx assumes that 
   this directory contains subdirectories for each year; the year subdirectory contains subdirectories for each request number.  Here’s an example:

   /home/gnomex/experiments
     2009
     2010
      6445R
           Your next-gen sequencing read files go here or in subdirectories here.  
           You will need to copy/move your data files here to make them 
           available for download.
      6446R
  
   flowcell_directory – The path to the root flowcell quality report directory.   
   GNomEx assumes that this directory contains subdirectories for each year; the year 
   subdirectoriy contains subdirectories for each flow cell number:  Here’s an example

   /home/gnomex/flowcellqc
    2009
    2010
        FC10
            You flowcell quality report goes here….

You can set the flowcell_directory and experiment_directory in GNomEx by clicking 
on the dictionaries link (right corner of nav bar).  Click on the folder called 
‘Properties’, then set each property.  (Remember to press the ‘Save’  button.)

When you select the experiment, then click the ‘Download’ link at the bottom, 
you should see the experiment downloads folder.  Check the folder and then click 
on ‘Explore files’.  This will display all of the files sitting in the experiment directory ready for download.  
 
